# SNHU_CS_320_Software_Testing

How do you ensure that your code, program, or software is functional and secure?
  The process that I take to ensure that my code is functional and secure involves an accurate understanding of the program requirements, thorough testing procedures, and following proper software security principles. A misunderstanding of the program requirements may still lead to a technically functional application, but if it doesn’t fulfill user needs then it fails to provide the function it was designed for. Without thorough testing procedures, it is difficult to ensure a program is functional as testing or code provides us valuable insight into any errors that may have gone unnoticed or was accidentally incorporated into the application. Following software security principles such as secure error handling, input validation, encryption, secure data structures, etc.,  when writing code provides the application with the infrastructure it needs to be a secure application.
  
How do you interpret user needs and incorporate them into a program?
  Interpreting user needs is the first and arguably the most critical aspect of the SDLC as this sets the foundation for the entire application. I start by ensuring I have a full understanding of what the user wants from the application and how they want it to be accomplished. Then, I outline the "big picture" for the application based off of the needs the user has described. This "big picture" provides an initial framework for me to work from and allows me to begin addressing specific user needs. I interpret user needs as program requirements and envision myself using the application as it has been described to paint a picture as to what it will look like in code. Finally, I begin the process of writing the application, utilizing my programming knowledge and the program requirements as the instruction manual for the application design.
  
How do you approach designing software?
  The way I approach designing software involves first ensuring that I have a full understanding of what the application is being created for. Without this understanding, the process of writing the software lacks direction and this lack of direction inevitably causes confusion. Software is designed to provide a service, solve a problem, or is a product in and of itself. With this in mind, I build a mental model of the application from these principles and brainstorm how I can design my application to meet these criteria.  Once I have a clear picture of what I am building, I tend to start putting code directly into the IDE piece by piece, starting with a skeleton of the whole program, adding basic functionality, and finally addressing the more complex and specific requirements. As the program grows little by little, including basic functionality, I test my program to ensure it operates as I intend it to and that I catch errors early. I have adopted the practice of incorporating software security and secure coding principles into my applications early as it is considered best practice and reduces code refactoring later in the development life cycle. Overall, I approach designing software with the big picture in mind and as a starting framework, working my toward any needed complexity chunk by chunk, testing frequently, and injecting security into the development process from the very beginning. 
